Generating Shellcode with Metasploit
Writing our own custom shellcode is beyond
the scope of this module.
However, the Metasploit Framework provides
us with tools and utilities
that make generating complex payloads a
simple task.
MSFvenom can generate shellcode payloads
and encode them
using a variety of different encoders.
The msfvenom command is fairly
easy-to-use.
We will use -p to generate a basic payload
called shell reverse tcp,
which acts much like a Netcat reverse
shell.
This payload minimally requires an LHOST
parameter,
which defines the destination IP address
for the shell
and we will also specify the optional
LPORT parameter
specifying the connect-back port.
And we will use the -f flag to select
C-formatted shellcode.
That seemed simple enough, but if we look
carefully we can identify bad characters
(such as null bytes) in the generated
shellcode.
When we can’t use generic shellcode, we
must encode it
to suit our target exploitation
environment.
This could mean transforming our shellcode
into a pure alphanumeric payload
or getting rid of bad characters.
We will use an advanced polymorphic
encoder, shikata_ga_nai,
to encode our shellcode,
and will also inform the encoder of known
bad characters with the -b option.
The resulting shellcode contains no bad
characters and will send a reverse shell
to our IP address on port 443.